During the last week in Cairo there was a little social flavoring mixed in
with shopping, sightseeing and the daily round. I lunched one day with the
Contessa and Mr. Tremayne at the Continental, and Mr. Tremayne, putting his
hand in his pocket and pulling out a little wad of paper, said "Here, Mrs.
Newberry, is an antique I've been carrying about for weeks meaning to give
you" and there was a heavenly bit of the perfect Egyptian blue with the sacred
eye or Horns on it - the very thing I had hunted for in vain in the shops at
Luxor. I've had it set in a ring and it's fascinating. Various people came to
call, among them Watson Pasha, a Personage indeed in Egypt, being the
Khedive's one English aide. I was out the afternoon he came but I met him a
day or two after at a tea at the Grahames and found him a most delightful
person. Lean and tanned and simple and direct and amusing. So tanned that if
it were not for the clear cut, clean English features he might easily have
been taken for a native. The King of Siam did take him for one. He had been
sent to meet that potentate and escort him through the Suez Canal. Major
Watson was wearing the uniform of the Egyptian Army and as His Majesty of Siam
shook hands with him he said "I hope it is perhaps that you speak a few words
of English". As he told me this story he was taking his amber cigarette holder
from a gold case. "That is the most sumptuous thing I ever saw" I said.
"Wait!" said he and brought out a gold cigarette case and a gold matchbox.
"Backshish" he explained. "They can't give me money so they give me these
things and I'd so much rather have a check for a thousand pounds!" The
Grahames' place is one of the sweetest I've ever seen, such lovely gardens,
such beautiful trees, - a fresh proof of the truth of what I've always said
that the English have a genius for taking England with them wherever they go.
We had tea on the verandah, and black and grey crows were waiting close by,
until we should turn our backs, to steal the cakes. Our last evening in Cairo
was a dream of beauty with the slenderest thread of a new moon floating above
a towering auracaria in the garden. The Ghezireh people must have been glad to
have us go - they'd been keeping the hotel open just for us and closed it when
we left. Mr. Backler, the manager of Shepheard's and the Ghezireh, sent his
own motorcar to help convey us to the station as a parting compliment to
Cousin Theodore. Various people were at the station to see us off, including
seven of the crew of the Beduin, all there were left in Cairo, the others
having scattered. They all shook all our hands three separate times and my
friend Mohommed, the second captain, looked perfectly superb. We left Cairo at
9:45 and for three hours and a quarter our train sped through lovely scenes.
We sailed at two that afternoon and the infinite boredom of seafaring has
soaked to the marrow of my bones. There are a lot of awfully good looking men
on board and if I knew some of them it might relieve my ennui - but the voyage
is too short for making acquaintances. There are three Les Altesses, one of
whom has a face like a Japanese mask and blows his nose so deafeningly and oft
that I'm in constant fear that Cousin Theodore will speak to him about it. But
the Prince and Princess Radziwill (I can't spell it) look the part quite
satisfyingly. It has been a polar sea today instead of a summer one. I do so
hope we shall find a little warmth in Italy. We expect to arrive in Naples at
noon tomorrow. Heaven bless you all, my dears. Devotedly, Mary P.S. Saturday
A.M. Last evening I represented the family at the Ship's Concert while Cousin
Theodore, Doris and Hariy were playing cards in the smoking room. At a table
near them sat the Japanese Mask and the Radziwills talking to each other in
six different languages. The Japanese mask blew his nose and Cousin Theodore
bounded in his chair, turned and glared at him and said "Good Heavens!" in a

