I don't know just where this willbe posted but it will seize its ﬁrst
opportunity. Much, much love to you all. Your devoted Mary Saturday, March 2.
The Nile, Somewhere above Edﬁi Dearest Adeline:- If the ﬁogs made as much
noise in Pharoah's bedroom as they are making outside of mine tonight I wonder
he did not let the people go sooner. I never heard anything like it. And just
this minute the voice of ajackal was added to the row that has been going on
every second since 6:30 - it now being half-past ten. Yesterday, aﬁer I
ﬁnished my letter to you, we had an excitement. We were going through the
great bridge at Esneh when our tug made too sharp a turn before the dahabya
got clear of the tremendous piers or buttresses or whatever they are called.
Everybody up above on the bridge watching our transit began to jump and yell,
the crew came ﬂying up on deck like the wind and leaped like cats on the
railing to try to push us oﬁ‘ as we rounded and crashed against the buttress.
Second Captain Mahommed, as he ﬂung his whole weight on his tiller, looked
like a raging devil - and undoubtedly has one inside of himself. There was not
much damage done - some paint removed and a few splinters, but that was all.
And none of the crew hurt - to our great relief - I thought one man was going
to be mashed. The rest of the afternoon's voyage "up south" as they say in
this land of contradictions, proceeded in peace with such exquisite beauty
round about us that I wished I had been constructed "ﬁill of eyes before and
behind" like the Beast in Revelations. The ineffable light and color ﬁlled
the very air — like music. One new feature in the landscape was the
Stockade-like structures made of dry stalks (stalks of the dhurra, I fancy)
put down along the sunny side of the shadufs to protect the workers a little
from the glare. We must have passed hundreds of shadufs yesterday and today.
They must weaken the bank greatly. This morning we heard a piece of the bank
detach itself with a boom like a cannon and drop into the Nile. We stopped at
Edfu today so that Doris and I might see the temple. We started this morning
from our tying up place (the other side of El Kab) before sunrise, but ran on
to a sandbar and were much delayed, and it was luncheon time when we reached
Edﬁi. As soon as we had lunched Doris and I started, climbing a very steep and
dusty bank, covered with chicken feathers, at the top of which donkeys were
awaiting us. Just how it is managed to always have donkeys or carriages ready
for us I don't know, but it always is. It's Jones, I suppose. Beside the usual
foot escort of donkey boys and a sailor we had a mounted one consisting of
Haneen and a native policeman. There was nothing attractive about the ride,
which took only ten or ﬁﬁeen minutes, and the heat was ﬁerce. But the
temple is perfectly stunning; probably the best preserved ancient monument in
the world, Baedecker says. The gafﬁr who showed us over the temple explained
that its excellent state was due to its being "so modern" - dating from 237
BC! In one of the ten small chambers opening from the corridor surrounding
the Sanctuary is a granite sacriﬁcial stone and he told us a tale concerning
it which we can ﬁnd in none of the guide books. He said that upon that stone
were slain such people as were unfortunate enough to have one red lock of hair
among the dusky ones. "If man have one lock red hair he bad man" he said. We
saw the Nilometer outside the temple and we climbed to the roof of the temple,
where it was hotter than pepper but the view from which made it quite worth
while. The donkey I rode was the most heavenly animal I‘ve ever been on - a
big, handsome grey Sudanese donkey with a gait so smooth he hardly seemed to

