mirrors - mirrors everywhere. Ismail's vanity must have been colossal if he
liked to see himself at every turn, because his portrait, hanging in the dining
salon, is anything but seductive. Qur table in said salon is directly next
that of the Grand Duke Constantine and therr interest in us rs much more open
than we condescend to let ours in them appear. Tonight at dinner, though they
had. guests, the Grand Duke kept turning around and staring at us. They
evrdently knew who Cousm Theodore was. The Grand Duchess looks nice and
simple and is very jolly in spite of her fresh mourning for the King of
Greece. But the Duke has a ﬁshy eye and a sinister cast of countenance. I
wouldn't care to know him but I'd like very much to meet the Duchess, which I
have not done, though the opening sentence of this letter might lead you to
suppose that we toddled hand in hand to the tailor's. We were much amused
watching the people in the dining room tonight. Really Englishwomen are, this
year, even more eccentric than Americans in their coiﬂ‘ures. Mrs. Aylmer, wife
of Col. Aylmer, came to dinner in a peacock blue satin bathing cap with
rhinestones all around the edge. I wish I had the nerve to do that sort
of thing and then I could stop agonizing over my hair. We truly have done
little worth recording this week. It has been very warm - we've had errands to
do which have taken time, and when we've simply gone for a drive in the
motorcar it has been to no place in particular. Saturday morning. I'm
wondering if you can read this at all - it's written so horribly. I don't know
what's got into my penmanship. Last Sunday being Easter, Doris and I took the
precaution of going to church three-quarters of an hour early, and a steady
stream of people was entering then. We sat on the side aisle and on the wall
before us was a marble tablet Sacred to the Memory of the Riﬂemen of the 3rd
Batallion of the King's Royal Riﬂes, with its three divisions - Killed in
Action, Died of Wounds, and - by far the longest list - Died of Sickness. That
seemed to me the most pathetic from its lack of glory, though there may have
been quite as much heroism in connection with it as in either of the other
two. The church was packed to bursting, and never have those beloved words
"Christ is risen from the dead and become the ﬁrst fruits of them that
slept" thrilled me more than in this alien land where the cross with its few
thousands towers above the crescent and its millions. Tuesday morning Harry
came down from Luxor and that evening he took Doris and me to the Torchlight
Tattoo at the Kaar-el-nil parade ground. It was quite a splendid spectacle. I
enclose the programme and beg you of your courtesy to keep it for me. All the
performances took place in an immense hollow square, three sides of which were
outlined by two hundred Gordon Highlanders each holding a torch. I must
confess that the "Grand Military Fantasia - The Battle of Minden" was anything
but impressive. I've seen inﬁnitely better sham ﬁghts in a Wild West Show.
But the rest of it was ﬁne. And "Abide with me" played with a continuous roll
of drums for an undertone was one of the most effective things I ever heard. I
caught a glimpse of my Russian Princess looking lovelier than ever. Wednesday
morning we all went to the Museum and I was enchanted to ﬁnd that it was as
though scales had fallen from my eyes. Things that had no meaning to me before
we went up the river were packed with it this time. Thursday aﬁemoon Cousin
Emma, Doris and Harry went to Shepheard's Hotel and from a balcony witnessed
the procession - the bridal procession of the Khedive's daughter. It was short
but magniﬁcent. Of course the bride was wholly invisible, being hermetically
sealed in a superb mahogany and gold coach with pinky-red velvet hangings, and
drawn by six