better than to buy him and take him home. Conventions are such deadly stupid
things - Doris and Roger Would almost as soon have me dead as to see me riding
about New Haven on a donkey covered with red tassels, and yet it would give me
such keen pleasure and be such pleasant, moderate exercise. We got back to the
Beduin at three and proceeded upon our lovely, watery way. Monday, March 3. It
has been a perfectly horrid day with a lovely ending to it, and just one
pleasant incident in the horrid part. No sooner had we started this morning
than we stuck on a sandbar - that is, our tug stuck. As the Beduin draws only
14 inches of water she never sticks on anything. When we ﬁnally got oﬁ‘ there
were ﬁve other boats (native ones - high and dry on the same bar. It was a
grey morning and the air heavy and enervating. As we went through the gorge of
Silsileh we had an excellent view of the rock-hewn chapel of Horem-heb with
its ﬁve doors and that curious row of shrines, also rock-hewn, with the
ﬁgures in them looking, as Miss Edwards . says in her "Thousand Miles up the
Nile", like people sitting in opera boxes. And then a perfectly dreadful wind
blew up and lashed the river into a ﬁiry of waves and whitecaps, and the air
was ﬁll] of sand and the landscape was more or less blotted out, and every bit
of energy evaporated from me. At about one we tied up just above Kom Ombo,
both because Doris and I were to see the temple, and also because navigation
was too disagreeable. There is a bank towering above us here where we are
tied, and though the Beduin jerked and strained most of the aﬁemoon, we were
out of the direct path of the wind. Doris and I decided to wait till after tea
before going to the temple, in hopes that the wind would fall - which it did.
The one pleasant incident above referred to was a visit from a tiny black kid
with long ﬂopping white ears. He announced himself with some baby bleats and
then trotted across the gangplank on to the lower deck. We went out to see
him; and he liked us so much that he kept coming back every time the sailors
herded him off the gang plank to the shore. After tea Doris and I took Haneen
and a sailor, climbed the bank, and two minutes walk along the top of it
brought us to the temple. The hour we spent there put us in tune again. It has
the unusual interest of being a duplex temple. If you drew a line straight
through the center from front to back you would have on each side of that line
a complete temple with forecourt, hypostile halls (large and small),
vestibules, sanctuary and chambers. and the one on the right hand side is
dedicated to the bad crocodile god, Sebek or Sobk; and on the leﬁ, to Homar
or Horceris (the Elder Horns). The ﬁrst thing we saw on entering the
forecourt was a little chapel in one room of which is a pile of mummied
crocodiles - quite shuddery. The temple is very ruinous, and the reliefs,
carved over every inch of it have departed from the pure, conventional lines
of the best Egyptian art and go in for realism with a result that is rather
fat and unpleasant. Its chief glory in our eyes is its site - directly on the
edge of the Nile on the summit of a bank so loﬁy that it would be a cliff if
it were of rock, but being of earth, has had to be strongly reinforced to keep
the whole temple from gradually washing away at the time of the inundation.
The views from the interior, out through the splendid columns, of the river
and the limitless desert beyond, are a wonder and a joy. We climbed far up on
a ruined pylon and sat there watching the gleaming river far below, the
Wisteria tint spreading over the sands of an island now void of the crocodiles
that once infested it, a long line of people going home to a village on the
far shore, and then the sun sinking behind the dim, dim, distant ridges of my
beloved Libyan Mountains. And with the sinking of the sun the cloudy sky
ﬂamed into splendor. Somehow it all made me think of "the glory that was
Greece“ quite as much as of the brutal majesty that was Egypt. Tuesday, March
4. Aswan. We did not spend the night on the pylon, though I see I made no
mention of our coming down. We left Kom Ombo before we were up this morning,

