Friday. February 28. And our last day here until we stop on our way down to
Cairo. I went across to Luxor this morning to say good-bye to Mrs. Pier and
have a final scalp treatment. The tonic they apply is made, they say, from the
juice of the palm tree. This morning when the German youth who has had recent
charge of my sparse tresses dabbed on said tonic, I exclaimed "Oh! that
stings!" "Yes, madam, it is de stink of de palm" was his apt rejoinder. Cousin
Emma and I had a wondrous drive this afternoon. Neither she nor I had been to
the diggings at Medinet Habu for weeks. When we announced we were going Cousin
T. said he did not wish us to as we would interfere with the work. He and
Doris go ever every other day, but when we suggest going he seems to think
that our presence will block everything. We took the felucca and rowed down to
the ferry landing where a carriage with two mules awaited us, and I was
internally much amused when Cousin Emma gave the driver the simple order
"Medinet Habu", for the Valley of the Queens was supposed to be our object.
But as we were crazy to see the things Harry had excavated since our last
visit - namely the palace of Rameses III. We found Harry trying to take a
photograph, while his hundred boys and men proceeded on their endless
procession to the dumping place. The throne room and three bathrooms are what
have, thus far, been brought to light. As the bathrooms open directly off the
throne room, to the casual and frivolous eye it would seem that the king
divided his time between sitting on his throne and a-washing of hisself. On
our way to our carriage we were held up by a native who produced a bandana
tied up in a wad from which he took out four little carved bone images, which
he told us, in a scared whisper, came from Lord Carnarvon's diggings. Cousin
Emma wished to buy them for Doris, but had forgotten her purse. The man agreed
to take the entire contents of mine, though it fell short of the ten shillings
he asked. When too late we realized that this transaction left us with no
backshis for anybody. On we went to the Valley of the Queens - a lovely desert
drive, and to my eye a much happier valley than that of the Kings, because of
the wide and beautiful view from its entrance away down to the river and on to
the far Arabian Mts. On our arrival at the tombs and upon being confronted by
the gaffir, we remembered we'd left our passes at home. But the magic name of
Davis opened the way. But then we fell back in the carriage explaining we had
no backshis. Broad smiles on the face of the gaffir and a courteous assurance
that that made no difference. I wanted mainly to see the tomb of Nefertari so
I went into that, and if that Queen was as lovely as her pictures on those
walls, Rameses II must have been crazy about her. The drive back to the river
was enchanting - the air so fresh, so calm, so scented, the barley fields such
a rejoicing green, everything so beautiful in the ecstatic light of afternoon.
The river reached, no backshis for the driver, but he was quite satisfied when
we told him Mr. Jones would attend to that (Jones is almost as much a name to
conjure by as Davis. Also there was no felucca, we having forgotten to tell it
when to come back for us! A Winter Palace boat clamored for the honor of
taking us to our dahabya, brutally pushing aside one lone tourist wishing to
cross to said Palace. Just started in the Winter Palace boat, up dashed our
own felucca, the men rowing like mad, and we were transferred, the Winter
Palace boatmen perfectly satisfied when we said Mr. Jones would see them. The
whole expedition was awfully amusing. Saturday. On our way up the River. We
"hit the trail" (as we used to say in my beloved wild west) at 7:20 this
morning, and it was high time for us to be moving, for Cousin Theodore was
getting tired of Luxor and very low in his mind. And again Doris and I are in
the clutch of the enchantment of these wonderful shores slipping by us.
Everybody is planting melons, even on the sandbars in the middle of the river.
I should think that later on the entire population would be writhing with

