the grass is very green, there are a few charming flowering shrubs, a palm
tree or two, and the steps cut in the bank to the road above have been greatly
improved in quality and looks. The gardener himself is a rather dressy looking
person with an obsequious grin which I dislike. His subordinate who does the
sprinkling is quite unpleasant to look upon - a fat old party dressed in
layers of what would seem to be dirty nightshirts, each one shorter than the
one underneath it. We found the flags at half mast and could not learn what
for until Jones came back from an expedition into the town and said the poor
King of Greece had been murdered. We have - or are to have tomorrow - the same
fine, red motorcar we had before. This afternoon we had to use a substitute
when Cousin Theodore, Doris and I motored out to Mena House for tea. The
pyramids looked much more impressive to me than the last time. By the way, the
stories of Reisner's marvelous find in the Sphynx are mere newspaper
inventions. Reisner has been exploring in Dongola all winter - excavating, I
mean. It's very amusing to watch the people at Mena House arriving from
expeditions on donkey back and camel. When Harry comes down from Luxor he and
Doris have planned to go to Sakkara by camel. I am invited but an eight mile
ride on a camel when I'm not used to that mode oftravel gives me pause.
However, I may do it. I'm going to Sakkara, of course somehow. Good Friday.
March 21. Doris wasn't feeling well this morning so I went to church alone,
conveyed thither in the bright red car. The chauffeur, a Levantine, I should
think, had apparently never heard of the English Church, All Saints, but
pretended to understand his instructions, with the result that we wandered
aimlessly, though rapidly, about for some time. We got there at last in time.
It was a nice and simple service. The church was full - loads of men. On the
way out I paused at the end of the church to do homage to the small, plain
marble tablet in memory of General Gordon. Outside the door I found Mrs.
Romeyn and Estelle waiting for me. I had hoped to see them at church, but had
looked in vain. I took them to their hotel, the Continental, and got back to
the boat just at luncheon time. This afternoon Cousin Theodore, Doris and I
motored out into the desert, the beautiful, haunting desert, and then had tea
at Heliopolis. Though we were going rather slowly, for a motor car, we flashed
all too rapidly for Doris and me through the streets with their fascinating,
fascinating sights. Probably there are places in India where there is the same
medley of nationalities as here, but I never imagined anything like it. Our
hearts warmed to the sound of the pipes and the sight of a Highlander in
kilts. Good-bye, my dears. Your most devoted Mary March 28, 1913. Ghezireh
Palace Dearest Adeline:- The Grand Duchess Constantine and I have been having
our clothes made at the same place this week and it has left us little time
for our writing. In fact, these past seven days since my last letter have
seemed a little too commonplace to be treated in the usual journal way, so
I'll give you merely a sort of resume. We moved from the dahabya this morning
- it was getting too hot to stay there - and find ourselves in the vast spaces
of this palace which once belonged to Ismael. The size of everything is fairly
oppressive. Doris and my bedroom is as big as our whole apartment in Orange
Street. The bathroom must be thirty feet high (the other rooms of course the
same, only it's more apparent in the bathroom) and nailed on the wall, by way
of decoration, is a fan whose sticks are a yard long. All through the Palace

