new set of rings every other week to wear upon his tattooed hands) dogging my
steps. Discovered, he drew nearer and practiced his English upon me. From his
mutilated utterances I gleaned that his name was Mourse, that his home was
Cairo, and that I was a nice lady. There was no village in sight but a flock
of brown sheep were feeding on the herbage upon the slope near the river, and
were being minded by a group of women and some little children who said
"How-do, how-do" as I passed by. Coming back the wind was against us and I
reached the Beduin in a state of heat and fatigue, and with that sense of
virtue that one has after having taken a walk one didn't want to take. The
wind fell late in the afternoon and we went a few miles farther down before
tying up for the night near Silaileh. Yesterday a sandbar and the bridge at
Esneh furnished our chief excitements. The sandbar held us fast for an hour or
more, and it was amusing to watch the various tactics employed to get us
afloat. Once some of the crew took off their turbans, stripped to the waist,
went into the river and set their splendid shoulders against the boat (the
Beduin herself actually got stuck that time) and pushed. It's queer, but these
men look much more undressed without their turbans than without their clothes.
At the Esneh bridge we cut loose temporarily from our tug and were warped
through, stern first, with ropes, the tug following; and so avoided a
repetition of the accident going up. We tied up for the night on the east bank
opposite a small town some distance above Erment. Coming down from there this
morning it was perfectly lovely. We got here too late to go to church, and
I've not been off the boat all day. Doris went this afternoon for a last look
at Karnak. Monday, March 10. Our hours here are numbered and I feel as though
I couldn't let them go. For some reason it's nice to be departing - for we are
really now turning our faces homeward and there are Italy and England to be
taken in by the way, but there's so much here that I've not really seen - and
the place itself is so hauntingly beautiful. I thank Heaven that mine eyes
have seen it. Cousin Theodore and Doris went for one more ride this afternoon,
but I had to do the society act for the family - going out to say good-bye to
the teachers at the Mission School, and then to tea with the Contessa. That
poor lady, instead of going to Cairo immediately after our departure for Aswan
- as she intended - was ill in bed for a week and looks quite shocking. We had
a charming time together and tea out in the garden. She says that Mr. Edgar,
Inspector of Excavations in Upper Egypt, says that our finds this winter have
been the only ones of any importance in this region. The men at the American
House (i.e., the Metropolitan Museum diggers) have found nothing but trifles
like beads, etc. Lord Carnarvon and his digger - the captious Mr. Howard
Carter - have been working like mad for weeks without stopping at all for the
weekly holiday, and with a force of 300, and have found nothing. "And
Carnarvon bears it", says Mr. Tremaine, who has somehow been completely
hypnotized by that degenerate peer, "as only Carnarvon could!" Having lofty
souls ourselves we are sorry the others have been unsuccessful, but
considering how Howard Carter sneered to us one day about Harry Burton's
capacity as a digger, we are too enchanted that it was Harry who made the
important finds, and Harry himself is so happy he looks like a different man.
Tuesday. March 11. And our last day at Luxor - a perfectly beautiful one like
so many, many that have preceded it. Harry came over from the valley quite
early to spend the day and make his final report about the diggings which
closed down yesterday. He stopped work ad Medinet Habu a week ago, and spent
the final week clearing up things in Siphtah where he found alabaster
fragments which, when pieced together, made 18 Ushabti! He presently crossed
over to Luxor to pick up Cousin Emma and Doris who had gone there, and at
luncheon time they had much tittle-tattle to communicate. They had encountered
the youngest son of the German Emperor, and Doris was rejoicing that she was
not a Royal Prince, if they looked like that - with positively no chin at all.