95/

/

Jew

i

>,
2‘!
5; 'i'

"w, V

leopard skins and the Soudnnese weapons, and the scores of things vow

never seen anywhere else.

This morning, immediately after breakfast, D. and I, with Hnneen

started for the dam — or the barrage as it's usually Called here:

Jones had engaged a carriage for us at the Cataract Hotel (OPPOSite
which we are lying with only a narrow chnnnel between us), and had n
luncheon put up for us in the native bnsket that looks just like the
square wicker cages birds are kept in at the bird fﬂnciers, In less
than five minutes from the time we left that very fine hotel COUFtynn
we were in the desert — and a terrible desert, quite unlike the beauﬁ
ful one at Luxor. Ruined habitations and ruined cemeteries lay ”lOng'
much of the three miles we drove, and it wouldn't have surprised me n
the least, though I Would have been white with fear, to have seen lioi
stalking about in those desperate solitudes. And then suddenly we §
were in the midst of an enchanting little cantonment of pretty bungn-§
IOWS, beautiful trees and gardens and verdant terraces, - the settle-é
ment in which live the officials and chief employees who manage the E
barrage. My wildest imaginings fell far short of the stunning and .
beWildering reality. Doris and I elected to Walk acr055 the barrage
though most people ride on little individual skeleton cars, each one ;
Dushed by a native along a track (there are two tracks). It is a milf
- quarter long, and there are 180 sluice gates. On the upper side thf
Nile lies like a cnlm lake within ten feet of the top of the masonry;%
while on the lower side, at least a hundred feet below and about in '
the middle of the dam this morning Where several adjoining sluices we;
open there was a thunder and turmoil of waters and foam almost like L
Niagara Falls. At the far'end of the barrage we took a felucc: and ;
sailed over to Philai, once the Island called “the Pearl of Egypt," bf
now so drowned by the banking up of the Waters, that only the very tm
of the palm trees shOW’above the water which laps the capitals of the
pillars of the temple. When we got back to the barrage we Walked dowx
four or five flights of steps along the locks and found another felum
awaiting us, Which Jones had sent up, and in that we came down the rh
We had hoped to sail, but there Was such a contrary wind the men rowm

the way.

,. ,u_u....., m..,. Mme A w, is to

3

In.»

There are a few more-sights to be seen tomorrow, and on Fr'dny We 5?“

on our return trip, The air is splended here, but the wind blOWS toe
much for my complete happiness. - '

Goodbye, darling. God bless you and keep you safe. I do so hOpe YOU”

will go to church on Easter.
Your Loving Mother.

Thursday, March 13, 1913
Speeding down the Nile

Best Beloved - At last we are on our homeWard say. Of coursﬁ
V

it is going to take us tWO months and a half to get there, but four 5

.«4

'months have gone. We left Aswan early Friday morning and reached LUK;
too late Sunday A.M. for D. and me to go to church. We had expectedii

to come down flying, liaving the current in our favor, as wall as it
tug, but mad winds and many sandbars interrupted our progress. Not ﬁ
that D and I minded - it was interesting to watch the crew getting u*

off sandbars. We sent the rest of Sunday, and all of Monday and Tue
day at Luxor, tied up as nearly as possible in our old place, and Wlﬁ
nothing very exciting doing. Doris paid one final visit to Karnak ’

 

>ﬂP‘L0

”(1:

”huh“!