me

different from those of Edward and his mother. I'm very flﬂttered
that you "had a wonderful time" reading all that manuscript in a
bunch. I'm so very sorry you missed that lecture by NP. NBrcer, and 1
would love to have had you meet him. I never knew him myself, but Edy
and Grace knew him, and were there part of the time With him, if I'm
not mistaken. I wish I kneW'whether the mines are paying and whether
its Mrs. TwOmbly who is doing the mining now that her husband is dend
The Milligan Mining Co. of which your uncle is President is the I '
"Keweenaw Land Association, and I only Wish I had some stock in it
I'm still someWhat lame from my rheumatism, so that I've been on m;
donkey only once in almost three weeks. That was last Monday and it
started up the pain in my leg again so that I've had to forego riding
since. It makes me wild to miss so much time and lose so many OPPOrtl
nities, but I'm glad it's I and not Doris - for the years have, as the
ought, brought something of the philosophic mind to me, and I don't mi
it as much as she would. Shezand Cousin T. rode‘over to the diggings
this afternoon and brought back interesting news. Harry has been ex-
cavating a palace of Rameses III and has found some very extraordinarl
windows (it was not supposed they had windows in that period) and alsc
a couple of bathrooms. I went for a long walk with a sailor to take
care of me, — a little too long, for the home stretch through heavy
sand was about all I could manage.

[Just before we arrived in Africa I said one day to Doris that I imagir
we'd meet so many people we knew that the Nile would be like Chapel Si
She promptly bet me $5 that we wouldn't meet more than three sets of
people that we knew. She has lost, of course, more than tWice over.
They've been quite thick recently. Saturday a.m. Doris and Janet Dodg
cavorted about Karnak together, and in the afternoon I had the Dodge
family to tea at the Winter Palace. Sunday after church I had a litt]
chat with Mrs. Daniel Eaton of Sachem Street. Tuesday a.m. Mrs. Eatox
came to call; Tuesday afternoon that nice Mr. Weston (you remember hir
first in Newport and then in Paris) turned up; and that night at that
at the Winter Palace Doris bostoned most of the evening with Newton 8)
and saw the Romeyns. Wednesday I went over to call on the Romeyns, m
Mrs. R. must have been really glad to see me because she kissed me. '
left for Aswan the next morning, but we shall see them again in Cairo
if not before. I took tea with Mr. Weston Wednesday at the W. Palac&
He asked a great deal about you and wanted me tu be sure to give you
his warm regards. He has been a full-fledged Prof. at Williams fOr U
years now.

I had already written to Manson & Co. before your letter came askingv
them to send you a check for $125. If that isn't enough to cover yom
Christmas expenses write me what I still owe you.

We are off on Saturday for ASWan. Up to March 20 send letters as :
heretofore - Shepheard's, Cairo. After that care Theo. M. Davis, ESQ
Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co. Paris, France. g

Please give Crosson Hays my love and tell him it is splended to hearé

of courage like his. I think he is probably made of the same sort 0?
stuff as that superb Captain Oates in the South Pole party, who afte‘

suffering for weeks without a murmur walked out into the blizzard 9nd