l.
4.
ﬁx
{I
1&1 4"

Cousin T. has chartered a motor car and it's on tap all day. He
loves to take long drives, and he has already taken us on some mar

vellous ones. The mountain roads about here are something Wonderfu
In between tines we dash to picture galleries and churches, and h ‘

little shops under the guidance of Harry Burton who is a perfect am
trump. Cousin Emma's nieces-(who are my cousins) Nettie and Mary
Buttles, who live here in Florence, are like the motor car _ alwqy5.

on tap. And they are so delightful, that the critical D pronounces'
them "the nicest cousins she has ever seen." Elsie Olyphant is he“
looking fine, and she and D. have had one afternoon together alreads
The Beebes will be in town in a day or two. It is an absolutely '
-fascinating place, with such a bewildering number of things to do a}
see one Would have to spend many winters here to do it justice.

In one of your letters you say "owing to the fact that my clothes

supply was very limited." If you haven't clothes enough you must gt
enough. It seems to me that you ought to be able to buy them out 33
your allowance but if you are not I'll pay for them gladly. I'm so
delighted that you were going to see Kim. And Gopher dearest, have;
you written to your grandmother and Aunt Mabel? I can hardly beliex
that after all I said about it you have still neglected it, but I'm
a little nervous because.Grandmother has not mentioned hearing from
I beg that you Will do it Without any further delay, if by any chan(
it is still undone. Don't think it is a small matter. It is not tt
small in itself to be important. And because I ask you to do it oug

to be — to you — an impelling reason. Your Aunt's address is:

I'm delighted you had such a nice time with Andrew, and I'm fonder i
ever of him just because he Was good to you. Your enthusiasm over
James Kemp makes me think he must have imprOved very much since I kr
him thirty years ago - which, of course, is time enough for anyone
to improve.

Now I must-bid you goodnight with a tight hug.
Your loving
Mother

v.

May'?, 1913
Buckland's Hotel
Brook Street f
Grosvenor Square,

l
Darling Gopher This letter is somewhat belated and I'm SOTFY-j
We left Florence Monday afternoon, April 28th at five in the afternc
and reached here Tuesday night at quarter of eleven; and dearly as 3
love England I am now getting so impatient to be home that I have a;
constant pushing feeling inside of myself. On the Sunday before leg

2
ing Florence I went to the American Church and encountered t

he Home?

and we walked home together. D. and I also ran across them the_nexﬁ
morning when we were paying a final visit to the beauties contained

in the church of Santa Croce. MrS. Romeyn Was full of Rad's “Oblli
in sticking to his job instead of accepting her invitation for him
come to Europe for the summer.

mr.

fonc
RC '
We :
Wa1(
The
ros«
I mt
hea

put

As

tun
fin
des
mag
the
Eng
it,

of
W01

The
I I

on:
ki}
to
by

Be
ju
th

Ho
be