I .

5 VHS

again and spend a week or ten days. Emily is arriving from the 0t}
Side tomorrow, but she has to go back again in November to spend t}
winter with Julia.

Vnwiv‘ n4-
zuui 19 v

d-
(D

r t lling of all your Colorado Springs doings and the

you had seen was most interesting. It was revealed to me in a fin
of lightening (truly) during a ferocious and appalling storm one
night that I had wholly forgotten to charge you to hunt up Maggie i
Colo. Springs. Hence my costly wire.

UICI

My head is feeling so queer I think I must put it to bed. I‘m much
too old and too important to work the Way I do. Please hurry up an
be a mining King so that I may be surrounded by vassals and serfs,
well as covered with ropes of pearls.

Doris is having a violent attach of rheumatism in Castine. The Bnk
are taking care of her like the dears they are. I think I'm going
start for Gambier Monday, so send your next letter there. And you
descending on Mrs. Morris again. How good people have been to you,
HOspitality is the Crown of Glory of the West — my beloved West. I
think Frank & Lida are in Denver by now. Be sure to find out. And
like to have you call on the Stimsons too.

Please give my regards to Mrs. Morris and tell her I don't know how
to thank her for all she and hers have done for you.

God bless my boy,
Your loving Mummy.

615 Orange St.
New Haven
lb September

Best Beloved — Something so dreadful has happened — I ca
bear to tell you. Jones, dear Jones killed himself four nights ago
The Reef. He had been having trouble with his head and he must gav
gone crazy for the time. He shot himself in the hall outside of hi
and the servants found him in the early morning. I think it would
killed Cmnmin Theodore too had he known the whole truth. But they
him Jones was-very ill and-had gone home, and the.next day they tol

him there Was no hope, — and then that he Was dead. I have few fri
anywhere that I would mourn for more. You have no idea the things
did for me la st winter - nobody ever in my life took care of me lik

that, — and always begging to be allowed to do more. And in all my
I have known few men as worthy of admiration and affection as Jones

It seems a long time since I heard from you. I hope nothing is the
matter. I have postponed going to Ohio till October.

Endless love, Mother.

The Reef
Newport, R.I. Oct. 1% 1

Best Beloved - There is nothing to write about here, but I'm afraid

won‘t get any letters from you unless I send an occasional one to Y
and letters totme now are food to the starving. The weather has be

I