30

combined the advantages of a long—desired missive from a friend and

a puzzle. She writes one of the most indecipherable hands I've ever
encountered. It seems Put had a very serious accident in football and f
a time was in a dangerous condition. That Was what first took her outﬁ
there. Then she staid for Christmas, and now she is staying 0n thrOUgf
February just because she likes it. %

Nothing particularly thrilling has happened since my last letter, The?
chief destination of our rides for the past week has been our new diggf
at Medinet Habu Which is much nearer than the old diggings at the Tomb;
of the Kings. Doris and I rode over there yesterday afternoon to cheej
Harry up a bit. He occasionally gets tired of not seeing a white perm
to speak to for days at a time. I sat on a block of stone that hnd on<
been part of a temple pillar, and Doris wandered about picking up Chun]
of carnelian, and my donkey boy took his clothes off - just why I cann(
say. Fortunately he put them on again. On leaving Harry to his diggiy
we rode up into a hollow in the Libyan Hills to see a temple we had noi
yet visited - a gem of a temple, called Der-el—Medineh. The view n10n{
off towards the Nile through a Wide cleft in the rocks was worth going'
far to see. And the superb looking Arab, guardian of the place, wns 5.
moved by my present of seven cents that he knocked Mahmoud, my donkey 1

out of the way and held my donkey himself while I mounted. On our homy

Ward way Doris left me on a mad gallop to catch up to a baby camel sht
saw in the distance. The maternal camel Was not pleased by this atten-
tion and tried to take a bite out of Doris, but, happily, failed.

I've been twice out to luncheon this week - once with the Eahnestocks
on their Dahabya "Cheops", and once at the Winter Palace with the Pier!
The Piers are enchanting people and so nice to us. They had Doris ovei

for dinner and the dance again Tuesday night. It is such a pleasure h
her and I'm so thankful she can have it. The incessant cardplnying is
rather hard on her. I tru to help out by playing dominoes as much as"

can; but Cousin T. so much prefers bridge.

Give my special love to Jack and tell him I live in hopes of finding t
to answer his letter as it deserves. My love to Wilson Toss. And,
dearest, to please me, b0 and call on Mrs. Baker. It isn't decent not
to when she has_been so kind about asking you there.

I made a mistake in saying it had been two weeks since I had a letter:
from you. It's only a little over one. God bless my boy. I have tiq

of being very homesick for you.
Your loving

Mim.
Luxor %
_ 8 February, 1913 .
Darling Gopher — Your letter of Jan 16th came tWO or three dnysé

ago with its accounts of the Prom. It was awfully nice for you, as
well as for her, that Edith made such a hit. I judge from what YOU "é
others have written that this year's Prom Was more per-fervid than ang

that ever was before. It's a pity to let it become an insane orgy - a;

that will eventually kill it. It was quite noﬂe of you to write to m'
so soon and shen you were still so nearly dead with fatigue. I encloi
the order on the bank which you asked for, and I put in the,P.S. justﬁ
just to remind you not to absent—mindedly carry off the key.

H..*~!¢ﬁ