Shortly aﬁer luncheon Mr. Lancelot Crane appeared and stayed to tea. He and
Harry and I_)oris and I always have a lot of amusement talking together. Two
ladies, acquaintances of Cousin Emma's, just down from Wadi Haifa on the
Mayﬂower, also came to tea. At intervals during the day I watched the ﬁmny
performances of the poultry, which amuse me so, and which form such a queer
link between this strange and ancient land and the everyday, humble things at
home. I really thought the devotion to Sir Francis Drake exhibited by his
ladies was carried to excess when he pulled a feather out of himself and one
of them instantly swallowed it. The yellow dog was lying contentedly on the
sand while two turkeys walked round and round him relieving him of his ﬂeas!
And - to my great delight - I saw a wild goose, ﬂying with outstretched neck,
between the river and the range. Wednesday, March 12. Dendereh. It's hard to
say which was the more beautiﬁil - the dawn I saw this moming at Luxor or the
sunset from the top of the temple here. It was a hectic leaving. - ’ About
eleven we got off, and for two hours before that the sands in our immediate
vicinity were ’ dotted with natives come to say good-bye in the hope of a
ﬁnal backshish. Mrs. Winlock and Dorothy Richardson rode over from the
American House to bid us farewell. Mohammed Mohassib came in a steam launch
and was both pathetic and impressive. He is a great personality. He is
planning to take his grandson and go to Mecca later on - for when we and his
other foreign friends are gone there will be "no nice people in Luxor, no nice
people at all." He says that once when he went to Mecca he took "threeteen"
people with him. As we passed the Luxor waterfront on our way down the river
many handkerchiefs and scarfs (or is it scarves?) ﬂuttered farewell - friends
of the crew, tradesmen we had patronized, and an acquaintance or two. But most
of the people we have known at Luxor this winter are already gone. It was so
lovely coming down between poppy—covered banks. Have you ever heard of the
poppies of Egypt? I never have. By the "Indian billow", yes - but never by the
waters of the Nile. "I strew these opiate ﬂowers On thy restless pillow; They
were plucked in Orient bowers By the Indian billow. May thy sleep be calm and
deep Like theirs who fell - not theirs who weep.“ White and pink and violet
and red they stretched in vast ﬁelds and were a joy to look upon. We got here
about ﬁve and Doris and I immediately started for the temple on foot. Jones
said it was a "very short walk" and on this boat a very short walk means not
more than ten minutes. But it's a number of years since Jones went to the
temple and he had forgotten. It was a good two miles - a beautiful walk -
after we had traversed the native village - with the most heavenly evening
light over miles and miles of emerald fields among which the road wound. But
we got to the temple just in time to see the sunset from the roof. Then there
was only time to hurry through the dim recesses of the temple itself, have a
moment's glimpse of the most important crypt, the colored one, and then start
back. When we left the Beduin we had an escort of two sailors - 'on our return
journey we had a retinue of eight - two native men, two children and two
goats having joined. One of the native men strode in front of us to shoo off
dogs and donkeys and people, and all the rest followed in our wake. Doris and
I chuckled consumedly at the idea of our tearing over Afn'ca‘at nightfall with
such a bodyguard. It was again augmented before we reached the boat by two
more of the crew who had been sent out to see if anything had happened to us.
Here let me. say, apropos of the gentleman who preceded us and ruthlessly

