thoroughly enjoy belonging to the conquering and superior races. 1% to
have silent, poor, inoffensive people pushed off the public highway in order
to give me three times more room than I need. Thursday, March 13. Nag Hamadi.
It has been a perfectly hateﬁil day — with the wind blowing everything and
everybody off the face of the earth. We tied up here in the middle of the day
because it was too dangerous to go through the drawbn'dge in such a gale. It
is a cold and glittering mght. The Mayﬂower, presumably with Mr. Weston on
board, is lying on the other side of the river, waiting for the opening of the
bridge in the morning. Friday, March 14. The Nile near Giegole. This has been
a great day - one of the best we've had in Egypt. We reached Beliana about
eleven I think, and as soon as we could after that we started for Abydos -
Doris and Haneen on donkeys, and Amelie and I in a brougham (of all things in
the world to drive about Egypt in) with a coronet on the door! Also there was
a very gorgeous native policeman on a proud Arabian barb prancing beside us.
They say Beliana is a very bad town - and somehow it looked it. The eight mile
drive to Abydos is through such beautiﬁil country. As you leave the town there
seem to be great estates on either side with ﬁne palm groves. Then come vast
ﬁelds of grain, green and golden, and reaped and stacked and many ﬂocks and
herds, and the abodes of the tribes tending them are out in the broad ﬂat
topped stacks of grain! And there was so much joyous young life bounding and
cavorting about the ﬁelds and on the highway, baby donkeys, baby camels, baby
calves and kids and lambs. The temple of Teli I at Abydos is so surrounded by
hills of rubbish that it has the effect of being a sunken one, and the facade
is so very ruinous that the splendors of the interior are all the more
striking, - the most beautiful carving, it seemed to us, that we've seen in
Egypt. We found a Cook's party of about twenty-ﬁve having luncheon in the
temple, and being starving we promptly had ours, beginning with a libation to
the gods as Haneen dropped the water bottle just as we entered. It was
delightful wandering about the temple. So much of the roof is gone that much
of the place basks in sunlight. We did not go to the other temple - that of
Rameses II - because it is a very inferior one, and we didn't want to take too
much time. As we were leaving, the onslaught of natives with things to sell
and natives who only wanted to beg and everybody yelling at once, and their
vanquishing by Amelie, reminded me of a verse in the Psalms "They came about
me like ﬂies - and were extinct even as ﬁre among thorns". Again we had the
delights of the drive, marred only by a tearing wind. Once our horse shied
violently at a Beduin riding by on a camel in the deep ditch by the high road.
Our driver explained that the horse disliked the Beduin headdress. As we
neared gu_r Beduin on the road by the river we had to make our 'way through
trains of camels laden with bags' of onions which were being unloaded from
ghiassas (I don't know how to spell them, but they are the native boats with
the Viking prows and enormous sails). We got back in ample time to pull up
stakes and make some headway before nightfall. Saturday, March 15. Tied above
Abutig. It's been another day spoiled by a tearing wind which destroys all the
pleasure of being on deck. Early this morning before we were up we passed
Cook's Steamer Amenartis on her way to Aswan, with Emily and Marian Whitney on
board. I'm so sorry to have missed them at Luxor. We have passed Akhenim, a
very large and ﬂourishing native town, to which, according to tradition, a
heathen princess once came riding to desecrate a temple, and the earth opened
and swallowed her up. The most beautiful sight today was what looked like the
preparing of a caravan to go somewhere into the interior - camels were being
loaded with all kinds of strange things and the mingling of colors was quite
ravishing. We are getting into the land of colored raiment again instead of
the black and white of upper Egypt. Good-bye, dears, much love from Your

