Rameses III. Senator Aldrich came to tea and gave us some authentic
information as to the cause of Mr. Morgan's erratic behavior. He says Mr.
Morgan was far from well and was greatly disappointed in his new dahabya
"Kargeh" because she was so slow, and that everything seemed to go wrong, and
he got tired of the whole business and dashed back to Cairo. Wednesday,
February 19. Today I had a distinct sensation. I went over this aﬁemoon to
the Rameses III to call on Mrs. and Miss Byers, whom I found very pleasant -
Miss Byers struck me as being a quite rare and lovely person - and while there
I saw no less a person than Rudyard Kipling. It seemed so strange that that
little (he's very short) commonplace looking man should be packed with such
extraordinary genius. I went on from the Rameses to the Winter Palace to have
tea with Mrs. Pier and Madam Legrain, and then home. And tonight Don's dined
on the Rameses with the Byers and then drove with them to Kamak to see that
wondrous place in the moonlight. She says it surpassed any moonlight vision
she ever heard or dreamed of. Thursday: February 20. The memory of today will
always be a mingled one of the Contessa and grateful warmth. The Contessa
invited me to spend the day with her, so I went over about noon and we sat and
baked in the sheltered sunlight in the Luxor Hotel garden. It must be 15 or 20
degrees warmer on that side of the river than with us, and I've been hankering
for the heat of the sun to annihilate my aches. The Luxor Hotel itself is a
gloomy place and I can't think why the Contessa chooses to stay there. The
garden is the only tolerable part. We had coffee there after luncheon in the
dismal dining room, and then we made a tour of the antiquity shops which I
found vastly amusing. Everywhere it was woe at Mr. Morgan's departure without
even a look at things that had been saved for him for weeks. It was at
Hassan's at the end of our rounds, that I saw the only things I really wanted.
It's surprising how ephemeral many of one's desires prove themselves if one
refrains from plunging into buyingthe moment one gets to a strange place.
Dozens of things I thought fascinating when I ﬁrst began to look about the
shops, I now pass with averted gaze because they tire me so. But Hassan
brought out ten little alabaster jars (tunbler shaped) with a cartouche sunk
in the side of each and colored blue, and an alabaster cover to each the size
and shape of a large cream peppermint, and I coveted them with my whole heart.
But the price of even one of the darling things was too much for me. Hassan's
shop is quite a mansion with all his treasures on the second ﬂoor. You mount
a ﬂight of stone stairs which would be imposing if it were not for the traces
of many chickens, and while you are poking about among the antiques a tiny
page in red and white brings you coffee, of the best, in dainty cups. I
brought the Contessa home with me for tea. Friday, February 21. And a
perfectly commonplace day. Calls with Cousin Emma this aﬁernoon and tea at
the Winter Palace, which seems to be more or less packed with freaks at
present - ladies who wear thin white dresses with no petticoats and pose in
the doorway with miles of Egyptian sunlight behind them. On our way back to
the Beduin the felucca was caught in the ' wash from the Aswan boat just
coming down the river, and from the deck of it Mr. and Mrs. Dodge and Janet
waved. Washing’ron's Birthday.- and a nice American day as beﬁts an American
on February 22 wherever she happens to be. I played dominoes all the morning
and in the afternoon I crossed over to Luxor, ordered a carriage, annexed
those enchanting Pier children and drove out to the Savoy to call on Mrs.
Daniel Eaton. As we passed along the waterfront - "Children" said I, "do you
know why all the American boats are dressed in ﬂags today?" "No", said the
sweet little voices. "You don't know what day this is?" "No", expectantly and
excitedly. "Why, it's Washington's Birthday". "Oh, 151? Why, I don't believe
Father and Mother know it." “Then you must tell them when we get back". Mrs.
Eaton and Mrs. Van Winlde were out, and we drove back again all too soon. As

