mahogany colored horses with pinky-red harness and trappings. Native military
bands, splendid to look upon, but "Allah be obeyed! How infernally they
played!" Soldiers and gun carriages and an absolutely ineffectual band of
native police who failed entirely to clear the streets for the progress. I'm
finishing this Saturday evening. Doris and Harry are intolerably set up
because the Grand Duchess smiled at them not once but twice this afternoon.
We've all decided we like her very much but not her august husband. He looks
as though he could burn people at the stake and enjoy doing it. Goodnight,
dears, and love always from Your Mary Sunday night. March 30. Ghezireh Palace,
Cairo Dearest Adeline:- (As I hate paper that opens backwards, I'm writing on
this wrong side before.) It has been a heavenly day, such a relief from
yesterday, which was what the knowing call "Khamsing". That, briefly
described, means a dead, thick feeling in the air which has a most deplorable
effect on the nerves. I tried to make myself believe yesterday that I was
homesick, but I wasn't - I was merely in a villainous temper, wanting to bite
everybody's head off and then have a crocodile bite mine. But it rained a
little in the evening and today has been fresh and delicious. Harry and I went
to church in the morning and the fine looking soldier boy who was usher hid us
behind a pillar so that we saw nothing and the clangor from the street
prevented us from hearing anything - which proves one advantage of knowing
your service by heart. Mr. Bonham Carter joined us on the way out and we
walked to the Hotel Angleterre to see if Miss Elena Rathbone had arrived from
India. She hadn't, so Harry and I hopped into a humble vehicle and drove home.
In the afternoon he and Doris went to the Zoo in the hope of seeing Lord
Kitchener, who is supposed to haunt the place Sunday afternoon. He skipped
today but they had many other delights, including baby lions, and a baby
elephant which marched in front of a band of Scotiish pipers. And they had tea
on a tiny island surrounded on all sides by flamingoes and pelicans and came
home in a joyous frame of mind. In the meantime we had had a charming call
from Mr. Anthony, an Englishman in the Department of Finance, who liked our
tea so much that he drank three cups. Monday. March 31. Had I ever guessed the
wild delight of riding a camel, never would I have wasted a whole winter on
the lowly and diminutive donkey. Today we went to Sakkara and back -twenty
miles in all - on camels, and though I'm very sore in spots tonight it was a
blissful experience. We had an early breakfast - Doris, Harry and I -and
then motored out to Mena House, where camels and luncheon had been ordered for
us. Lady Hilda Keppel, a charming Englishwoman we've met here, went with us,
so we felt almost like a camel corps. The one thing I had dreaded was the
getting up of the beast, but I was spared the immediate terrors of
anticipation, because the instant I touched the saddle, before I had had time
to arrange my legs or anything, Mena heaved his mighty bulk into the air and I
went up shrieking. Later on as we were loping over the desert, the
exhilaration of it went to my head and I shouted from my eminence to Doris's
"I never was so happy in my life." It took us two hours and a half to get
there, and though we were starving to death we heroically did two tombs and a
pyramid before going to the rest house and unpacking our lunch basket. We had
no time for dawdling, so, luncheon over, we started immediately for the
Serapeum.