I wonder if it's often given to human eyes to see anything more beautiful than
the Libyan Range was to mine as I saw it from the front terrace of the Winter
Palace today in all the splendor and the glamour of the late afternoon light.
It strikes me with fresh joy every time I look at it from that particular
place and at that hour. The Beduin has sunk so with the falling river that
from the salon we can no longer see even the tip-top of the Range, and even
from the upper deck we do not get it in its full majesty as they do from the
Winter Palace. When we first tied up here we could see the Range and all the
intervening stretch of desert and green from the salon window - which will
give you some idea of how the river has dropped. When I got back to the Beduin
I found Mrs. Pier and the Countess having tea. They had stopped on their way
home from an all day expedition to the Valley of the Tombs of the Apes. They
had asked Doris and me to go, but we declined because Cousin T. was not
feeling well. Thursday. February 27. This morning Cousin Emma and Doris went
over to Luxor to see Mohammed Mohassib and the Luxor temple, etc. while Cousin
Theodore and I settled ourselves with the dominoes on deck. In the middle of a
game the sound of many bleats arose upon the air - ranging from deep paternal
ones to tiny appealing baby calls, and over the sands came a flock of dark
brown sheep with four men and some children shepherding them. They came
straight to the little cove just at the stern of the Beduin. Three of the men
stripped to the loincloth, and each grabbed a sheep and walked into the river
to wash it, while the children and the fourth man kept the rest of the flock
together, and one small naked boy wrestled with a ram. It was a very
interesting sight and I was so annoyed when the native policeman, who spends
his day over here to see that no one steals our turkeys, strolled up and
ordered them away from the sacred precincts of the dahabya. This afternoon
Doris and Cousin Theodore rode over to the diggings and I went for a long
walk. My Monday attempt proved that my leg is still too lame for riding. Away
to the north, standing in a row in the most obvious and posterish manner, with
the far end of the Range as a background, are three palm trees. They look
exactly like the funny pictures of the African desert with an artist up in one
of them while a lion lashes his tail in front of a deserted easel below.
Cousin Emma says she has hated those palm trees for years, and even I have got
deadly tired of them this winter. So I walked to them to see if I liked them
better at close range. The first part of the walk led along the sands by the
river's edge where the natives are planting their melons. Vast stretches of
little hillocks, with short bunches of dry cane in them to keep the sand
together, show where melons have already been planted, and little oblong
bunches, about the size of a large watermelon, show where others are to be
planted. There ought to be an enormous crop in this immediate vicinity alone.
Then I struck inland past a native village which has always looked so charming
in the distance and which was very squalid really. Along a little ridge broken
by shadufs and a complaining saldheh around which a cow toiled. I like them
best when a camel is working them. Camels always look so absolutely superior
to anything they may be doing. I heard such a nice reason the other day for
the superciliousness of the camel. Allah has one hundred names -the Faithful
know ninety-nine of them but the camel knows the hundredth!... Then I cut
across a cultivated little gully, climbed up the other side and, behold, the
three palm trees, looking quite lovely and presiding over the very verdant
outskirts of a tiny village. I came back another way and was ready for quarts
of tea when I got here.